Add documentation for pattern_text mapping type (#135856)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/text-type-family.md

---
navigation_title: "Text type family"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/text-type-family.html
---

# Text type family [text]

The text family includes the following field types:

* [`text`](/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/text.md), the traditional field type for full-text content such as the body of an email or the description of a product.

> * [`match_only_text`](/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/match-only-text.md), a space-optimized variant of `text` that disables scoring and performs slower on queries that need positions. It is best suited for indexing log messages.

Reviewer: What do you think about this?

```suggestion
* [`match_only_text`](/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/match-only-text.md), a variant of `text` field type with limited functionality. Scoring is always disabled and always uses the `standard` analyzer. It suited for match only free text uses cases. Meaning that the fact that there is a match is important, but scoring and where the match happens isn't relevant. Note hat positional queries are possible, but are slow.
```

> * [`pattern_text`](/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/pattern-text.md), a variant of `text` which is optimized for log messages which contain sequences that are shared between many messages. By compressing these shared sequences, `pattern_text` provides improved space efficiency relative to `match_only_text`.

Author: @jordan-powers and @martijnvg  What do ya'll think of this blurb? I'm having trouble coming up with a description that is succinct and described the difference between pattern_text and match_only_text.

Reviewer: Match-only text is targeted for match only cases, and relevance and where matches happens are not important. This can be achieved with `text` field type as well. So it is more pre-configured instance of text for specific use cases. This means less storage is needed at the cost of losing normalization and fast positional queries. 

The pattern_test field type is more suite to index short repeating messages like log messages. That gives a real space saving benefit. 

So I would document the differences with these things in mind.
